README.md, before:

# Bitcoin Incognito (BTCi) masternode install script
## Use this script on a fresh install of Ubuntu 16.04 (x64)
This is a simplified version, manage your memory & firewall settings as you need ...

Stable and cheap VPS hosts here : https://www.scaleway.com/

My BTCi address if this helped you and you consider a donation : B5riAb43z9i3CEVYBK9vjwN1nRF6UsJoze 
<p>(FYI, i don't have enough collateral to run my own BTCi masternode, but i have a few smaller ones)

## This guide is meant for setting up a "hot/cold" setup with Windows & Linux.

## Use this script on a fresh install of Ubuntu 16.04 - MUST BE x64

# Part 1 - Sending Collateral Coins

1. Open your Windows wallet - MAKE SURE IT IS SYNCED WITH THE NETWORK
2. Go to Tools -> Debug Console
3. Type the following command, where "somealiasname" is your masternode's alias, for example mn1
```
getaccountaddress somealiasname 
```
#### The above command generates a new address for your masternode collateral
4. Send 1500 BTCi to this address (mind the FEE ... depends on the exchange)
   For example, on Graviex, the fee usually is 0.002, so you have to send 1500.002 to have exactly 1500 in the end
5. Wait a few minutes for the transaction to process, then go to Tools -> Debug Console
6. Type: masternode outputs (This can take a minute before an output is shown)
#### This will show you the rtxid and index of the transaction. Take note of these for later.
7. Save your TX ID (The first number) and your Index Number (Second number, either a 1 or 0)
8. Type: masternode genkey
9. Save your generated key as well as this will be needed in your VPS as your private key
10. Save these with a notepad 
11. Close the wallet (if you want to, this is not needed)
12. Move to Part 2 for now

# Part 2 - Getting your Linux VPS Started Up 
## Read all instructions and follow prompts closely ...
### NOTE : do NOT run software as ROOT, this script will create a dedicated user !
(the installation script has to be executed by a priviledged user of course)

1. Connect to your linux VPS, then copy and paste the following to get started :
```
sudo apt install git -y && git clone https://github.com/tofke/btcimn.git && cd btcimn && chmod -c u+x install.sh && ./install.sh
```
2. follow the prompts closely and don't mess it up!
### NOTE : this is where things get different from the initial script :
A dedicated user named "btci" will be created after the software installation to run the node.

To start the node, this user will just have to type "btcid".

To stop the node, btci would enter "btci-cli stop"

To have it started automatically after reboot, add this line in btci's crontab : 
```
@reboot /usr/local/bin/btcid
```
Reboot your server and check if everything goes well ... to get the number of blocks downloaded by your node, run : 
```
btci-cli getblockcount
```
Compare this number to the last block on http://explorer.bitcoinincognito.com/

This command will tell you if the masternode runs : 
```
btci-cli masternode debug
```
Type "btci-cli help" to get more informations on cli options (otherwise use the wallet on your desktop to manage your node remotely).

3. Move to Part 3

# Part 3 - Editing your Windows Config File

1. Open your wallet
2. Go to Tools -> Open Masternode Configuration File
3. Enter the following on one single line after the example configuration
```
<alias> <ip>:7250 <private_key> <tx_id> <index>
```
4. It should look something like this:
``` 
MN1 66.65.43.32:7250 87dfjnKNfdjNlwomdmKKMdkaNIE a3eofJJkdlMlfKokfmalmofO 0
```
5. Save and close the file and restart your wallet.

# Part 4 - Starting the Masternode

1. In your wallet, go to Tools -> Debug Console
2. Enter ```startmasternode alias 0 <alias>``` with ```<alias>``` being the name of your masternode from Part 3
(this file should also be updated on the Linux node, so that it can start automatically)
3. Enjoy!  You can start this process over again for another MN on a fresh Linux VPS!

# Feel free to consider a donation if this helped : 
BTCi : B5riAb43z9i3CEVYBK9vjwN1nRF6UsJoze

*Official BTCi Discord (masternode channel) : https://discord.gg/NRgMQHJ

(you can find me there as "tof" and let me know if you have any issue with this script)

# Recommended Tools

- MobaXterm : the best SSH client (and much more) for Windows i know : https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/download.html

Commit message:

Added some precisions in README about the 'btci' user created

README.md, after:

# Bitcoin Incognito (BTCi) masternode install script
## Use this script on a fresh install of Ubuntu 16.04 (x64)
This is a simplified version, manage your memory & firewall settings as you need ...

Stable and cheap VPS hosts here : https://www.scaleway.com/

My BTCi address if this helped you and you consider a donation : B5riAb43z9i3CEVYBK9vjwN1nRF6UsJoze 
<p>(FYI, i don't have enough collateral to run my own BTCi masternode, but i have a few smaller ones)

## This guide is meant for setting up a "hot/cold" setup with Windows & Linux.

## Use this script on a fresh install of Ubuntu 16.04 - MUST BE x64

# Part 1 - Sending Collateral Coins

1. Open your Windows wallet - MAKE SURE IT IS SYNCED WITH THE NETWORK
2. Go to Tools -> Debug Console
3. Type the following command, where "somealiasname" is your masternode's alias, for example mn1
```
getaccountaddress somealiasname 
```
#### The above command generates a new address for your masternode collateral
4. Send 1500 BTCi to this address (mind the FEE ... depends on the exchange)
   For example, on Graviex, the fee usually is 0.002, so you have to send 1500.002 to have exactly 1500 in the end
5. Wait a few minutes for the transaction to process, then go to Tools -> Debug Console
6. Type: masternode outputs (This can take a minute before an output is shown)
#### This will show you the rtxid and index of the transaction. Take note of these for later.
7. Save your TX ID (The first number) and your Index Number (Second number, either a 1 or 0)
8. Type: masternode genkey
9. Save your generated key as well as this will be needed in your VPS as your private key
10. Save these with a notepad 
11. Close the wallet (if you want to, this is not needed)
12. Move to Part 2 for now

# Part 2 - Getting your Linux VPS Started Up 
## Read all instructions and follow prompts closely ...
### NOTE : do NOT run software as ROOT, this script will create a dedicated user !
(the installation script has to be executed by a priviledged user of course)

1. Connect to your linux VPS, then copy and paste the following to get started :
```
sudo apt install git -y && git clone https://github.com/tofke/btcimn.git && cd btcimn && chmod -c u+x install.sh && ./install.sh
```
2. follow the prompts closely and don't mess it up!
### NOTE : this is where things get different from the initial script :
A dedicated user named "btci" will be created after the software installation to run the node.

To start the node, this user will just have to type "btcid".

To stop the node, btci would enter "btci-cli stop"

To have it started automatically after reboot, add this line in btci's crontab : 
```
@reboot /usr/local/bin/btcid
```
#### NOTE : adding a line to the crontab is done with this command : 
```
crontab -e
```
The "-e" option is for edit, to see if you have some lines in crontab just type "crontab -l" like this : 
```
tof@mn1:~$ crontab -l
no crontab for tof
```
This example shows an empty crontab (a crontab basically is a task planification system). Get help on google if needed ... explaining these things goes beyond the scope of this documentation. If you use it for the first time, it will ask you to choose an editor (nano, mg or vi), for example : 
```
tof@mn1:~$ crontab -e
no crontab for tof - using an empty one

Select an editor.  To change later, run 'select-editor'.
  1. /bin/nano        <---- easiest
  2. /usr/bin/mg
  3. /usr/bin/vim.basic

Choose 1-3 [1]:
```
It depends on your Linux experience, i personally use vi, so i type "3" to answer that question ... if you are a beginner, just hit enter.
Remember that the script created a dedicated user to run BTCi, it's name is 'btci', so you'll have to connect back to that account : 
```
sudo su - btci
```
Check if everything goes well ... to get the number of blocks downloaded by your node, run : 
```
btci-cli getblockcount
```
Compare this number to the last block on http://explorer.bitcoinincognito.com/

This command will tell you if the masternode runs : 
```
btci-cli masternode debug
```
Type "btci-cli help" to get more informations on cli options (otherwise use the wallet on your desktop to manage your node remotely).

3. Move to Part 3

# Part 3 - Editing your Windows Config File

1. Open your wallet
2. Go to Tools -> Open Masternode Configuration File
3. Enter the following on one single line after the example configuration
```
<alias> <ip>:7250 <private_key> <tx_id> <index>
```
4. It should look something like this:
``` 
MN1 66.65.43.32:7250 87dfjnKNfdjNlwomdmKKMdkaNIE a3eofJJkdlMlfKokfmalmofO 0
```
5. Save and close the file and restart your wallet.

# Part 4 - Starting the Masternode

1. In your wallet, go to Tools -> Debug Console
2. Enter ```startmasternode alias 0 <alias>``` with ```<alias>``` being the name of your masternode from Part 3
(this file should also be updated on the Linux node, so that it can start automatically)
3. Enjoy!  You can start this process over again for another MN on a fresh Linux VPS!

# Feel free to consider a donation if this helped : 
BTCi : B5riAb43z9i3CEVYBK9vjwN1nRF6UsJoze

*Official BTCi Discord (masternode channel) : https://discord.gg/NRgMQHJ

(you can find me there as "tof" and let me know if you have any issue with this script)

# Recommended Tools

- MobaXterm : the best SSH client (and much more) for Windows i know : https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/download.html
